Instructions: Volatility plugin changepid

Assumptions: Windows host with VMWare workstation

1. Create a virtual machine
  a. make a note of the process name and target PIDs you want to manipulate
  b. take a snapshot
  c. shut the VM down (optional)
  d. you can use suspended VMs as well, they're just harder to work with on repeated runs
2. Download and unzip the Volatility 2.4 Windows Standalone Executable
  a. http://www.volatilityfoundation.org/#!24/c12wa
  b. In the directory  where you put volatility-2.4.standalone.exe, create a folder called plugins
3. Alternatively, you can use the full version, in which case the plugins folder already exists
4. Put the file changepid.py in the plugins folder (whether using the standalone or full version)
5. Open an Administrator command prompt and navigate to the folder which has volatility-2.4.standalone.exe 
  a. you'll get errors with a non-Administrator command prompt
6. Find your host system disk's sector size with this command:
  a. fsutil fsinfo ntfsinfo c:
  b. the "Bytes Per Sector" value is the one you want, probably 512 or 4096.
  c. If it's 512, you don't need to do anything more; if not, see step 7e
7. From the command line, type the following on one line:
  a. volatility-2.4.standalone.exe --plugins=.\plugins -f vm.vmem --profile=WinXPSP2x86 changepid --image_name=vmacthlp.exe --new_pid=800
  b. where image_name is the name of the process to manipulate, and new_pid is the new pid to assign to this process
  c. you can find the vmem file's profile with:
    i. volatility-2.4.standalone.exe -f vm.vmem imageinfo
    ii. the plugin should work for WinXP and Win7
  d. the argument to -f is the vmem file to manipulate; this will likely be in another folder, so just provide the full path like this:
    i. -f "D:\Jones\VMs\WinXP-HiddenPID\Windows XP Professional-Snapshot2.vmem"
    ii. the quotes are important if your filename/path has any spaces in it
    iii. the vmem file can be edited in place (in the VM folder); you don't have to make a copy or alter permissions, but the VM itself might have to be shut down (haven't tried this, but it might work with the VM running)
  e. if your host disk's sector size is not 512, then add the following to the end of the command in step 7a:
    i. --sector_size=4096
    ii. where 4096 is whatever value you got in step 6
8. The output of the command in 7a should look like this:
  a. Changed PID of process named vmacthlp.exe from 856 to 800 at memfile offset 26683524.
  b. which indicates that vmacthlp.exe should now have a PID of 800
  c. you can manually check this with HxD; open the vmem file, set the display to dec (decimal), Ctrl-G (goto) the offset above (e.g., 26683524); you'll see the little endian representation of the PID starting at this location (4 bytes)
9. Restore the VM snapshot associated with the vmem file just edited and the target process should have the new PID (viewed with tasklist or TaskManager for example)
